And I'm just going to say at the top of the tape that I'm Marsha Marnie and I'm
with Margaret Prosser and I can't see the name of your farm. What's the name of
the farm? Cronin's. C-R-O-N-I-N-G. Cronin's Farm and it's Rudry.
Rudry? Yes. And it is... Neocophilly. Neocophilly. I thought we were in Neocophilly.
And it is Friday September the 6th 2019. So I'm just going to pop that down there.
When we were coming over the hill I could see... I thought are we in Neocophilly? I couldn't
believe it. I didn't think we were that close. Yeah. You came up this road here. Yeah.
And you actually took that... So you're looking across there. It's a different perspective
because it's gorgeous looking across the levels there isn't it? Yes. Yes it is. Yes. Yes.
Yes. And then when you get on the top there you can see Clevedon... Pier. Pier. Really?
That's amazing. I might have to come back when it's a clearer day. Yes that's right.
Yes. Yes. It's not a clear day.
No. I suppose we've had a rain this morning and that makes it more... limited more aren't
you? You've met Marjorie Neal have you? Yes I've met Marjorie. Yes. Yes. Are you related
to her? No. No. We were great friends. Oh really? Yeah. In Farmers Days. Oh crikey. Yes.
Yes. Oh yeah. Everyone's... it's so lovely. Everyone... I have to say Margaret that everyone
I've met have been just adorable. Oh. And so open and welcoming. It's just such... so
lovely. Yes. Making my job so much easier. Um. Because Marjorie Neal is a lovely woman.
She was born there on... on the moors. She was there. Yeah. She was born there when I
was born. Would you know Steph Davis? Um. Oh what's her maiden name? I can't think of
her maiden name now. She was born at Lower Newton House I think. Stephanie. Stephanie.
Um. I can't think of her name now. I'll... I'll think of it. Um. But I wonder if we can
just start off. If you could just tell us. Yeah. What's her maiden name? I don't know.
Um. When you were born and where you were born. And I was born at 31 Herbert Avenue,
Riske. Um. As I say my mother was a farmer's daughter and my father was doing works you
know. And um we moved from there then to Park Place at Riske and we lived there for quite
a few years. And then we moved from there then and took the farm at Langorse. And that
was uh nineteen... what was it? Nineteen... nine. Nineteen. Nineteen. Nineteen. Nineteen.
Oh dear. Nineteen... forty-six. Forty-seven. That's right. And then I moved back down
then to Sluice in 1956 when I married Derwin. So your... so what was your father's name?
William Benjamin Thomas. And your mother? Minnie Harris. Oh that's nice. Named Minnie.
Um. So your father worked in the steelworks you said? Yes. Where? Uh in Pontymyster Steelworks
which is not there at the moment. Yeah. That was um taken down some years ago. Um. And
that's where I went to work with the... with the... with the... with the... with the...
steelworks. Um. And then I moved to Newport. Was that in Newport? Uh Riske.
Ah. Pontymyster Riske. Yeah. Um. So he wasn't a farmer at all? No. No. No. Um. And then
he had his sister Evelyn Mary Thomas and she was forty-four years in Riske at a radio...
an electrical shop. Ah. ð…ð†ðððððð. And then his other sister Auntie Phyllis,
Phyllis Thomas. She was a teacher. And um up in Abercarne. And um they lived in uh...
uh... oh I've got to think of the name of the place now. Oh dear that's terrible isn't
it? Uh they lived in um Woodland Drive in Rodgestone. I don't know whether you know
that area do you? No I don't. Do you know Riske at all? Not very well at all no. You
don't? No. No. You go up through Woodland Drive, uh Rodgestone up to Riske and then
of course you carry on up the valley then. So your... your mother was from a farming
background? Yes. Yes. And where was she from? Newhouse Farm Panteig near Pontypool. Okay.
One near Wynne it was really. Um. Um. And she was a farmer. Um. And she was a farmer.
Um. So how did she meet your father? Uh well I think my gran... my um grandparents on my
mother's side... father's side lived in New Inn. And I think my daddy used to go back
and forth you know to see them and that фow they met I suppose. It's funny how people
do meet don't they? Um. So your father had to learn how to be a farmer then presumably?
Yes he was always interested. His... his... his cousin used to keep the Mardie Farm, Kerkurnu
just below the Kerkurnu uh golf course. Yes. And uh... um... he was a farmer. He was a
farmer. He was a farmer. He was a farmer. And uh he spent a lot of time there. So that
um you know he really got fed up with the uh as the saying is in the steelworks. So
he thought they'd branch out and uh they had this farm in Langorse then. And we took that
over Lockstock and Barrow. We took over the... when they say Lockstock and Barrow we took
over the stock and uh and rented the farm there. Okay. Yes. Mm hmm. Langorse and um
I liked Langorse very much. We'd look out for the door and you could see the plenervan.
Oh he had? Yes. Yeah. In 1947. Yeah. And then the... the... the... the... the... the... the...
the... the... the... the... the... the... the... the... the... the... the... the... the...
vised. Yeah. And then in 1927 was a winter. Oh terrible. Was it really? Oh shocking yes.
I mean we had tremendous snow. Um the Tschumel didn't go from there to the... with the lorry
for over a week. Wow. Because we were snowed up. Yeah. Right to the hedges. Crikey. And
then there was a... a... a camp of Italians at Böch. And there was another um... um the
Germans in uh Italian... German soldiers in Brecon. And they cut through really. Yes.
Amazing. Yes. It was. It was. It was a... it was a... it тех. It was a... it was a... it was
a... work of f- So it used to do it really, it does. Yes but it was uh, but it was... it
was a hum... it was, it was horrendous. So uh... and then I used to go to school in
Brecon then from... from Laungros. And i'd walk up to the hill I used, I used to hate
school. Uh... I'd rather be home, Ha ha ha doing the work, Ha ha ha doing the work there.
And um they... just er... Sy chocolat sometimes but it's walk at the time. And I used to
really good olun-out. And then I'd hear the train coming around from Talga to Brecon
and stop at the Laungrosä¸ç”¨ and stop at the Laungroså·¥house and... I tried to
way. But no I never got there and I came home.ç«¯, but then I thought I said look
you can't do this you see you must you have got to go to school i said well i don't like school
so i left when i was 15. so uh that was my story of schooling in breckel
so how old were you when your family moved down here when i say here over there oh to
berry hill when so where is berry hill it's on the main road go through castleton yeah
to newport and before you get down to where there's a big uh walkover bridge yeah well it's
on the right hand side before you get there yeah yes it's not there now is it gone is it all gone
no the farm is still there well they were uh pick your own but um they they haven't done that for
some time now and um there's a bungalow that's built next to it uh which the person that took
over after my mother father finished uh he was there for some time
um well actually it was there was robert peele you know robert peele leave us and this is
grandson but his name is robert really yes amazing so why did your parents move from
langorse why did they come here well because um well it was a bit bigger farm and uh we like this
area more because my parents well my father particularly more from this area and as i
say his um his cousin used to farm the farm down below so he did quite a lot of you know over there
with them and then so so did your parents move to sluice farm or was that you no i moved to sluice
farm i married from berry hill and i married derwin from sluice farm so how did you meet dillwyn or
young farmers it's quite it's quite a much more real place yes young farmers that we should belong
to so was it very active then young farmers yes we were yes um st madame's young farmers went under
lindsay young farmers in brecon or langos when i was there and um yes we were quite active you
know yes we're seven fun different go to different shows and so forth you know but um oh yes it's
quite a matter of places the young farmers i think really i i've heard that so many times
people who've met through yeah it must be an informal marriage bureau
crikey oh yes yes so you met dillwyn and then did you meet them
And then he was already living at...
He was born down the sluice.
He was born there.
Yes, yes.
And he's got two sisters.
One is Betty, which is two years older.
And she's living in Gloucester.
She's 90 now.
And then the other sister lived at...
Did you see who met Derek?
Yeah.
Well, Derek's mother was a sister to Zorin.
Oh, OK.
Zorin.
Yeah.
She died...
Oh, she wasn't very old.
She was cancer bad.
And very sad it was.
Yeah.
And that's why Derek...
So how have you met...
How did you come to meet Derek, excuse me, ask it?
Well, Derek and Andrew were both through John Souther
who worked for the drainage board.
Ah, right.
Yeah, so he's a chap that goes round cleaning them
and talking to all the landowners and stuff.
So John introduced me to...
He said, you've got to speak to Derek and Andrew Prosser.
Oh.
So that...
And then that's why I'm here now.
Yes.
Yeah, very grateful to him.
Yeah.
Well, my father Prosser, he was on the drainage board
and he was supposed to lend a different beatings and that, you know.
So that's, um, Dillwyn's father?
Father.
So what was his full name?
Winford.
Winford Prosser.
Mm.
So what...
And his wife was living at Lansoy.
And I don't know how they met.
Um...
Er, let me see.
I think...
I think Dillwyn's father had a housekeeper
and then, um, my mother-in-law Marjorie,
she was Marjorie,
she came down to meet her
and then, er, they seemed to pa...
to get friendly and then they married, you see.
I love that.
Yeah, so Lansoy.
Lansoy at, er, at the side desk.
So what was, um, er...
Sorry, what was his name?
Winford.
Yes.
So he was on the drainage board, you see.
Yes, yes.
And Dillwyn was on the drainage board.
Yeah.
Yes.
Mm.
So I'm getting confused.
So Winford is Dillwyn's father?
That's right.
Yes.
So Winford was on the drainage board.
So what do...
What can you tell me about Dillwyn's parents?
And on the farm and...
Er, well, erm, Dillwyn's...
Dillwyn's dad, erm, Winford,
er, has got a brother,
I'm sure he photographs out there afterwards,
erm, Campbell Cross.
So he was a barrister-in-law
and he was out in abroad for a long time, Singapore.
Really?
And then he had a sister,
erm, which I've got the photo...
The whole family's over there, you can see later in.
And, erm, then he had a sister that lived in,
erm, in...
Cardiff Road.
Er, and then, erm, is Missy Campbell.
And then there was Dillwyn who was killed in the war,
First World War.
And, erm, that was Winford.
Erm, well, I'll have to...
I can show you the photograph.
I won't...
It's on the wall, so it's easy for you to...
Yeah.
You know, to have a look at it on the wall, really.
So that was, like, that was Dillwyn's father's side,
you see, of the...
And do you know...
And they had butcher's shops in Cardiff,
Clifton Street.
Yeah.
Yes.
There's a big butcher in there.
And, erm, that was their business, more or less, you know.
So, a...
A butchery shop.
Yes.
Butcher's shop.
So, when did the farm come into the...
Well, Winford, erm, he wasn't keen on the butchery shop,
so he went farming then.
So he took over...
Took sluice then, rented sluice.
Oh, right.
And then, of course, the milk.
And then there was to have a milk round,
er, with a milk van and everything.
And, erm, Dillwyn used to go occasionally when his father
had a meeting up in London,
but, er, he wasn't so keen on the...
on the milk round.
But, er, he used to do it when his father had to go to London
for meetings with the drainage board and that, you know.
So why did they have meetings in London?
I... I don't know, really.
But, erm...
And, of course, they used to have the meetings out at, erm,
Magar, didn't they?
Yeah.
That's the place... Is it Magar?
Yes, Magar, isn't it?
They used to have the...
Oh, Nash.
Nash, rather. That's right, Nash.
Oh, Pye.
Pye Corner.
That's right, Pye Corner.
Yeah, yeah.
Nash, Nash, yes, yeah.
Yeah, so, er...
So was it... was it always a dairy farm then,
the Stute farm?
Yes, yes, yes.
They had cow... we had cows and everything,
and sheep.
But, erm...
And then we moved up here later,
and then, erm, they moved there,
but then they went out to the cows.
And so the Andrews only got the sheep at the moment.
So then you met, erm, Dillwyn.
Through Young Farmers.
And so, erm, er, what...
So where did you marry, actually?
In Coedcoonoo Church.
Oh, did you?
It's a dear little church, yes.
It's a house now, it's been turned into...
Yes, Coedcoonoo...
Do you know, erm...
Well, you know the main road I said about with this article,
so you turn down for Coedcoonoo...
Yes.
...for the golf course.
And it's just before you get to the golf course.
Or just after the golf course, sorry.
On the right?
On the left-hand side,
you've got a little lane up to the church.
Really?
Mm.
Oh, I don't think I've been to the church.
Oh, I don't either.
It's a house now, people, it's, erm...
Was it a chapel then?
Or was it a chapel?
No, a church.
Mm.
Really?
Yeah, Coedcoonoo Church.
Oh, I have to go back that way afterwards.
I might go and have a look.
Yes, yes, yes.
I had no idea.
And, erm, I think there's three or four houses there.
Mm.
Er, because there was a farm next to it,
but they've gone into, into homesteads, you see.
Mm.
So then, so did you then start your married life at Seuss Farm?
Yes, yes.
You moved in with...
I moved...
...with your in-laws?
No, no, they moved, they built a house.
Do you see the house on the side there?
Yes.
They built that.
Oh.
And then we went into the farmhouse,
and they built, they built that and went into there.
So this would have been, what, the mid-50s?
Yes, 57.
57?
Yes.
So, erm, so what was the farm doing then?
Was it...
Er, milk.
Milk.
Milk, and milk round.
Yeah.
Yeah, and just fill the bottles, you know,
and wash the bottles then in a, in a little shed that was there.
Yeah.
It's, erm, yes, it's, I think...
I've got a photograph here.
Excuse me.
How many cows did you have, Margaret?
Pardon?
How many cows did you have?
Er, well, not like they've got today.
They've got hundreds today, haven't they?
Yeah.
And they've really been 125.
That's dope.
Which is quite, you know, big for those days, I suppose, isn't it?
Yeah.
You know.
And I've got a photograph here, I think, haven't I?
Yeah.
And that wasn't all hand-milt, was it?
Pardon?
Was that all milked by hand?
Well, it was years ago,
and then they, of course, they went in with the machines then, you know.
This is a photograph of Slough's house.
This was before 1963.
That's where it was when I used to live there, see?
Oh, crikey.
There was a milk van by there.
Yeah.
A dairy there where they used to, er, russet milk bottles.
Cows used to go into there.
Yeah.
And then this was the garden.
I mean, Anne's got a beautiful garden down there now.
Wow.
And then there was just a shed where we kept chickens.
Yeah.
And then there was a little shed there.
So it all altered, of course, because all of this is buildings here now, isn't it?
This has all changed, hasn't it?
Yeah, all definitely.
I mean, it's all built up.
It was very rural then.
Yes.
Yes, yes, it was.
Crikey.
And then in this field here, which Father Prosserow was in-wound, that's where they
built the house you can see Wyvern.
Oh.
You know, they built that there.
Did they build that because Dilwyn was getting married?
Yes.
They built that to go in there.
And, erm, oh, I'm sorry.
I was only thinking about the house.
I was thinking about how much it cost the other day.
I think it was about 90...
Oh, I've forgotten the money.
I'm not sure I was thinking about how much it cost the other day.
The bridge cost nearly more to get across the ream to get to the house than the house,
I think.
Really?
Yes, it was.
You forget about that, don't you?
Yes, you do.
You have to get across the ream.
That's true.
Yes, yes.
So what were your first impressions when you moved down there and started married
life?
Well, I used to go back and forth there before we were actually married, you know,
and have sex, you know.
And, erm, I didn't have any friends there.
And, erm, I had a couple of things with my mother-in-law and, erm, yes, well, I liked
it very much because we had ground with Berry Hill.
We had two fields on the moors, as we call them.
Okay.
Yeah.
I rented those.
And, erm, so it wasn't any different for me, really, you know.
Yeah.
And then, of course, you used to go to Young Farmers there and we used to go to
Young Farmers Club in St. Melons.
Did you?
Yes, yes.
And the chapel there used to hold the Young Farmers meetings.
Yeah.
But, erm, I didn't get that.
Oh, yes.
I enjoyed life.
So, as a farmer's wife, so I've spoken to lots of farmers, and, erm, so as a farmer's
wife, would you, would you have been aware of and concerned with all the reams and the
maintenance and stuff?
I mean, I guess what I'm trying to ask is, was there very much a clear, this was what
the woman did and this is what the men did, or was it all mixed up?
Erm, well, I think, I, I used to, I used to enjoy going out and feeding calves and
things and that.
You know?
And then when he was born, he used to be, we used to put him in the pram and put him
in the corner of the milk and shed.
And he'd be sat there, you know, watching the cows coming in and out and all that sort
of thing.
And, er, before we had a parlour, that was the milking parlour type of thing, you know,
where you could get up and in and all that sort of thing.
But, erm, yeah, I've always been, I've always been interested outside.
Because I used to spend quite a bit of time before we went to Langhorst with my, my grandparents
at, erm, Newhouse Farm Panty.
And I used to go out there and stay when I was a little tot, you know.
Put me on the bus in Newport and my aunt would meet me in New Inn.
How lovely!
Yeah, yeah.
So, did you ever get involved in the bottling of milk down there?
I used to have sometimes, and that helped, erm, wash, my father probably used to, you
know, mostly he'd do that.
I'd have to come back off the round and then wash the bottles and get them ready then to
fill up the next morning.
You know, it's, er, yeah, oh yes.
Oh yes, I've had a, I've had a, I've had a, I've had a, I've had a, I've had a, I've had
a, I've had a, I've had a very enjoyable life really.
That's, er, you can tell that, it shows in your face.
Oh, does it?
It's lovely.
Yeah, it does!
What about the poultry, was that the important part of the, the fun?
Yeah, we used to sell eggs on the, on the milk farm quite a lot, you know.
And then, if there was any surplus eggs then, er, I used to bring them to the Husband Brothers,
we used to have, erm, er, er, well, I don't know, what do, what do you call it, an egg,
erm, centre that they would have eggs and then they'd take them out on delivery.
It was a very, very different, very different, very different, very different, very different
Where were the Husband Brothers based?
Er, it's in, er, it's, it's, erm, Lisvane.
Oh really?
Yes, yes, but that's all different now altogether.
Mmm.
You know, it's, places change, don't they?
Yeah!
Well it's interesting looking at this photograph, because you must have seen enormous change
in your lifetime down there.
Oh yes, yeah, especially now, er, more buildings up for stock and everything, you know.
Yeah.
And, er, I mean, I, I was trying to keep it, well, clean side, you know, all this business.
And we used to have a boy living in then, you see.
Did you?
Yes, yes, you know the, er, excuse me, you know the kitchen?
Mmm.
You, you go in through the back door, don't you?
That's the dinar-, kitchen for every day.
Yeah.
Then there's the kitchen, isn't there?
Then there's the other room.
Mmm.
Well, we used to have a boy living in there.
Did you?
Yes, yeah, and, erm, he had his bed in there and there was a stove in the corner.
We used to have for the fire and he had an armchair.
Yeah.
He always ate with us.
And, erm, yes, so, er, we used to have a, er, we used to have a, er, we used to have
a stove in there and there was a stove.
So, we always had a boy living in.
And who, who was he?
Was it a series of people or?
Erm, well, yes, different wa-, er, we, we had a few from St Bride that didn't live
in there, came back and forth, which is the, you know, from Cuck-, or Cuckoo New, but,
erm, a couple of st-, er, actually lived in there, you know, with us and they'd eat with
us and all this business, you know.
That, erm, I mean, you had a tele-, er, well, not a television, a wireless more like, but
he did have a television towards the end.
And, erm, yes, we always had a boy living in there.
I suppose the farm could support that,
whereas it would be difficult to do that today, wouldn't it?
Well, I suppose, yes.
It's the different ideas today, isn't it?
Yeah.
Different world today, really.
It's changed a lot, really, with farming, hasn't it?
Did you have sheep, then?
Yes, we had some sheep, yeah.
Pet lambs and something, you know, feed those.
Yes, I can't remember how many sheep.
We didn't have so many sheep as we know, naturally,
because we had the dairy in as well, you see.
Yes, oh yes, I've enjoyed my life up until now.
So Ant used to go up onto the seawall and bring the sheep in on ponies.
Yes.
Did you ever get involved with that?
No, not really, no, no.
Yes, we put sheep over on the seawall,
and then Doreen, Derek's father, Philip, would come over
and...
and they'd have this horse and a little trap thing, you know,
and they'd sit in there, and they'd go up then to get onto the bus
and to bring the sheep up and all this business, you know.
And then one day, I don't know what happened, but anyhow,
the pony started kicking the bottom of the bus in,
and of course got out of the shafts and left these four or five of us,
and the bus went backwards rather than south.
What, backwards down the slope?
Well, it went back, but it went back, you know.
I see, because the horse had gone.
There were shafts.
There were shafts hanging over the wall.
Were they okay?
Well, they were all right, and the dog jumped out a bit quick,
and the dog was in there as well.
Oh dear, yeah.
They used to come over every Sunday and go down and see the sheep and all sorts of those,
and bring them up for us.
Because the sheep used to graze on the other side of...
Yes, yes.
Mm-hmm.
So...
And then to, like, the tide used to come in so far, you know.
Yeah.
But they hired the, I think they hired the bank then.
Yes, they did hire it because, of course, the sea, the water was coming,
the sea was getting higher, wasn't it, you know?
Because you're very close to the seawall there, aren't you?
Oh, yes.
It's on the field, really, isn't it?
Yes.
The field across.
Did you ever experience the water coming over?
You see it sometimes if it was very rough, just splashing up a bit, you know.
But, you know, I never had the thought in mind of thinking,
oh gosh, I hope it doesn't come over there.
Never thought of that.
No.
I suppose it does, it has, well, it has in some places over the years,
isn't it, you see?
Did you ever use the shore where the sheet grays?
Is there like a picnic spot when you had children when you were little?
Yeah, we used to go over there and, like, a lot of the...
Have you been over there?
You've been over there, of course.
Mm.
But I haven't been over there for years, really, so I don't know what it's like.
But we used to have little, little, what's the name of the water coming in
where there's been bits and ditches?
Yeah, like rivulets.
Yes, yes.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Yeah, we used to go over there with our neighbours, Eddins, his next farm,
Slough's Farm, that would be, the one just on the side of the road.
And, yeah, we'd go over there for picnics and, yeah, we'd just have a, you know,
now and again have a good time.
Was it, was it, was there a real sense of community there then?
Down the village, yeah, you mean the village itself?
Yeah.
Oh, yes.
Yes, because those, those opposite the hall, those are all built, Susie, because when I went down there first,
there was no houses there then, you know, so they'd been built.
And at the back of the hall is a little cul-de-sac.
Yeah.
That's the council houses further over.
Mm.
They were, they were there when I went down.
And different houses being built around there, you know.
Yes.
Oh, it's nice, I mean, I'm quite upset, really, because WI have been a member for 62 years down there.
Have you?
Yes.
And I used to take my mother-in-law because she didn't drive, Deryn's mother didn't drive.
So when then, after lunch, we'd go down on the second Tuesday, the month, I used to pick her up and we'd go down,
because she was president at that time, and there was the, the old black stowage, I don't know whether you've seen the old round black stowage.
Yeah.
It was like that.
In the village hall?
In the village hall.
And then put the chairs and tables up, and then go back then, and I'd pick her up then for, after tea then, to go to the house.
So we'd go to WI. And, yes, we did that for years.
And then I used to have the milk van then. I had the milk van for a couple of, oh, for about a week or more in the afternoons,
to go to a place in Bremondy to get a sanding machine.
And then, put in the back there, and then we'd do the floor, you know, sand, get the floor all nice and, you know.
Yeah.
Yes. Oh, we've had some good times round there. Really good times.
So somebody was telling me that St. Bride WI used to have a canning machine.
Yes.
Do you know about that?
Yes. Yes. And Mother Prosser had it. Now, where it is, I don't know.
Yes, because we used to put fruit into our own canning.
Yes.
Hmm. Hmm. I wonder where it is. Now, I, I, I'd forgotten about that.
I wonder where that is now.
Yes, now I wonder where it, where that is.
You've got me thinking now.
I'd be trying to explore where it is.
So would they, would they, would they...
Would the WI rent it out, or would they take it out to people and say, do the canning for people?
Er, I could, I wouldn't, I can't say that. I mean, erm, I know we used to borrow it and do our own.
At least Mother Prosser did more than I did, but I'd give a hand, you know.
But, erm, that's interesting how you brought up that canning machine.
I was going to bother you now.
I'd be worried about that.
It'd be lovely if it's still around somewhere.
Yes. Yes, it would, wouldn't it?
And it's still going, the St Bride's WI?
St Bride's? No, no, it's, it's folded up a long time ago.
Oh, really? Oh, that's a shame.
Yes, yes, yes. So a lot of the people from there now come to Peterstone.
And this is why I'm, I'm rather upset that Peterstone is talking about folding up.
Oh.
Mm, mm. I mean, the secretary, she's moving away down to Swansea. Well, that's fair enough.
Er, the president, she did say, erm, that, er, she'd do it for another two years.
Well, the two years has come up now.
And no one else wants to take the responsibility.
That's such a shame.
It is a shame. It is a shame.
And it's been going how long?
Well, I've, I've been down there 62 years.
That's phenomenal, Margaret.
Mm, mm. And it was on a long time before that.
Oh.
Yeah, so sad, really.
How many members have you got down there?
Yeah, we, we, we, there's, there's, erm, from St Bride's area, around Asda, where people live,
er, I expect there's 14 people come from that area.
And it, it seems such a shame that, erm, you know, no one will take it on.
After all that time?
Yeah, it is.
Because I was president for some, about seven years, er, after Mother Pross has given it up, I don't know how long she was.
But, erm, no, it's quite sad. I was quite, quite, erm, upset about it, really.
But I'm hoping, erm, that I, I might join Kevin Mabley, Michael Stoneman.
Mm.
Which is nearer.
Yeah.
But, erm, the distance in Michigan.
I don't think it'll make any difference to me.
I was talking about the long...
Yeah, the longevity, though, isn't it?
Winds, winds and weather.
Yeah.
Pick up a couple of ladies from our school on the way down, you know.
Oh, how sweet.
Yeah, she used to enjoy it.
That's how it goes, isn't it?
So the, erm, er, so you, you said Mother Pross used to can fruit.
Yes.
Where did, where did her fruit come from?
Oh, well, erm, she had, we had plum, plum trees.
You know, we had trees, we had plum trees in the, erm, we had a couple of trees around here.
Yeah.
Plum trees and things and then, well, I suppose that was our garden then.
You know, and then we'd have beans and stuff like that and, you know, to roast it.
Mm.
But, erm, yeah, I've, I've forgotten about that canning machine.
So what was the process then?
So you'd pick the fruit and then wash it, presumably?
Yes.
And then put it, make a syrup.
Yeah.
And then put it in the tins.
And then with the machine you'd seal it all and that would be a tin fruit.
Gosh, and that would last all the winter?
Yeah.
Well, yes, if, you know, you make, you make as much as you can, you know.
Or we could.
And, erm, yes, gosh, I'm glad you thought, thought about the canning machine.
You've got me worried now.
Well, it's come up a few times, you see, so I thought, how curious.
Yes.
I'd never heard of a canning machine before.
And that St. Bride's WI has a canning machine.
It just sounds really resourceful to me.
Yes, that's right.
Yes, yes.
I wonder where that is now.
Did the, did the, did the WI, because in the past the WI has been absolutely fantastic
at recording local people and their memories.
Did the St. Bride's WI ever do anything like that?
Ah, no, they folded up, as I say, and then a couple of them came from there then, which
are a few more now, because the president it is now, er, she lives in one of the houses
by our stairs.
Mm.
And, of course, a couple of her friends have come as well.
But, erm, as I say, I, I was quite upset about that.
I was quite upset last week when I knew that it was going to fold up.
Oh, that is upsetting.
Yes, it is, isn't it?
Yeah.
But there we are.
If people are not interested, you can't, erm, can't force people to be.
You can't, unfortunately.
You can try and encourage.
Yeah.
But, erm, yeah, so.
So, as a young woman, a young wife, was it part, part of your, one's social life, the
WI?
It was, really.
Mm.
Yes, yes.
I went up to London.
For the two AGMs.
Excuse me.
Just.
WI was something that you did as a young wife and it's something you've continued to
do for a long time.
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
I, erm, yes, I enjoyed WI.
I went to London to the AGM on two occasions, which is at the, er, Albert Hall.
And that was very interesting where they come from all over the country there and, you know,
that's, that's gone back a bit.
But, you know, being, it, so what struck me about, you know, down on the moors there,
that it's quite.
It's quite a different landscape, isn't it?
It's flat.
Oh, yes.
I think all the watercourses.
Yes.
Was that a challenge in some way?
I don't know whether you've found, erm, of course, there's people living in the church
now, the church was, er, was, and on about, oh, what, what am I, five foot, am I five
foot or nothing?
Mm.
Er, it's up about, erm, fuck, well, I should know that, was it, where the Great Flood was.
Yes, yes.
Yes.
Yeah.
And, erm, the bank, you can see the bank.
Now we're one of the fields.
We're one of the farms up, as you go down the road a bit.
Yeah.
It's, erm, yes, er, well, I think I'm right in saying that the water more or less came
up near the lip of Castleton.
Yeah, it was, yeah, because it goes down, doesn't it, apparently.
Yeah.
It's very low, very low.
Did you ever experience flooding there?
No.
The rains would fill up, quite a way, you know.
Yeah.
But no, no, we never had any flooding, as such, no.
What was it like having young children around those things, though?
Was it ever a worry?
Erm, oh, yes, yes.
Now, the neighbours further down, the next farm down to, erm, was a farm then, er, they
lost a child that drowned in the, in the, erm, water.
Oh, really?
And also, instant brides.
The child drowned instant brides in the rain.
Oh, really?
Yes, yes.
Mm.
But, erm, I suppose you get, er, I suppose if you're, if you're born down there, you
get used to it.
I know the one that's came down, the one down, er, further on down the road, it's,
from London, came down to see the sister, erm, came down and brought the little one,
of course, went down the steps and down to the, in the rain there, you know, which was
very sad, very sad.
Oh, gosh, that's so sad, isn't it?
Mm, terrible, terrible.
Yes, but, erm.
When you first went to Sleuthes Farm, was there electricity and stuff?
Yes.
Yes, yes.
Yes, yes, yes.
Because when I lived in Langorse, we had no electricity.
No?
No.
I got the lighting lamp there, the hanging lighting lamp.
Yeah.
And, erm, I've got lots of table lamps in there that's, er, with oil.
And, er, we didn't have any hot water or cold water or anything like that.
Can you talk about the winter of 47?
What was the winter of 62, 63 like?
Er, I was down here then, of course.
Oh, here?
It was bad, yes.
Oh, right.
Yes, it was bad then.
Yeah.
Erm, I used to have to go up to, I used to go up to Castleton with the tractor, er, to,
erm, have the lorry to come down, to, you know, to bring me down.
Really?
And then, erm, in the evenings, then, you know, I'd have to go up to the, you know,
to the, erm, a couple of the locals there, the youngsters.
He'd, erm, he'd take me down the six bells on a, on a, on a big board, drag it down the,
down the road, you know.
Oh, yes, we had quite a lot of snow.
Yes, yes, yes.
But we had more when we langoed.
I can remember seeing on Pen Y Van.
Yeah.
Er, down one of the crevices in June.
There was still snow.
Really?
I can see that now.
My goodness.
Went on and on and on, didn't it?
Yeah, oh, it did.
It did.
Yeah.
Did anyone ever go skating on the Rhine?
No.
On the Rhine?
On the Rhine.
On the, on the, oh, sorry, Langos Lake they used to go.
Yeah.
But I mean, er, well, it was frozen over and a motorbike went across and it's, er, never
known before.
Really?
It went across the other side.
I've never heard that before.
Mm, mm, yeah.
Brave man.
They, they did.
But, er, yes, I should say, but many did freeze, didn't they?
Yeah.
You know, it's just.
And, erm, yeah, we used to go, we used to go and, er, at Crowder River, River of Langos,
we used to take one of these little boats.
Er.
And we used to go down to the other side of Langos, Langasti.
Mm.
And I don't know where, even with Langos.
And if you look across there, there's a little hall.
Mm.
About three fields from the end of the river, I said.
And, er, Langasti Hall.
And we used to go across there to dances.
And we'd take one of these skiff boats, you know.
Yeah.
And we used to row across there.
Did you really?
Yeah.
And, erm.
It was quite some distance.
Yes, it was really.
Yeah.
But when you, you don't notice distance, do you?
I wouldn't do it now.
And we used to tether it there and walk up these two fields, go to the dance, come back
then and row back.
My goodness.
Imagine if my daughter was doing that.
I'd be, you know.
Yeah.
That's good.
Our parents don't know what we're doing.
Yeah.
That's what we used to do then years ago when we were young.
Do you remember the, erm, did you ever help with hay making as a young farmer's wife?
Er.
Well, yes.
Dry the tractor, perhaps, and that, you know, the baling.
Oh, OK.
And, of course, we had, erm, I don't know, a four-horse.
I don't know.
I might have got a photograph here where, erm, just kind of, excuse me.
And what's this prize here then, Margaret?
Well, this is when I was, I was first lady chairman of, erm, of St. Melon's Show.
Now you, that was a big show someone said to me.
Oh, yes.
Oh, it was lovely.
Yeah.
Fair play it was.
And I still look forward to St. Melon's Show.
So is it a very strong farming community?
Is it a very close-knit farming community?
Farming.
Yes, I think, yeah, I think so.
Yes, yes.
You know, we do a lot of things together.
We had two donkeys.
And, erm, I had this donkey down at Slough's.
And then we put her in foal.
And, oh, you've never seen such a sweet thing when there's little one came.
I think the whole village came down to see it.
Really?
Oh, just the, the deal thing.
Someone told me that farmers kept donkeys because they were good luck.
Well, yes, they, they, they, they, erm, they do, a lot of people have had a donkey.
Yeah.
Yeah, a lot of donkeys with a, with cattle.
Hmm.
Well, I've never heard that before.
Yes, yes.
I don't know whether it's, or there's, there, spent it, there's a little one, single.
Wow.
This is 1955.
I sold my sheep and I bought the little sports car.
Is that you?
Yeah.
No, that's not me.
My, that's my mother and my aunt.
But that's the little car I bought.
You bought it?
Yeah.
I sold the sheep and I bought the little car.
Oh, I think that's so impressive.
That must have Parkinson's been very unusual for you young woman then.
Yeah, oh yeah, we used to have some fun. We used to go following the hounds.
Did you?
Yeah, on the top there. And then one day, walking back to the car, here comes the local policeman with a steering wheel in his hand. He took the steering wheel off.
Why?
I went to Blackpool in that, and back.
Oh my goodness, me? What sort of car is it?
It was a built-up Le Mans Singer. It had a Singer engine.
I am so impressed with you. Oh my goodness. And so you followed the hounds down on the moors?
Yes, yeah.
Really? Derek was telling me about that.
Yes, yes, the Shudiga hunt.
Oh, so where would you go?
And the Shudiga hunt was based in Bayslake, but it's all been built on now.
Yeah?
So they've gone up to Gellie Gare, the hounds up there.
Yeah.
So, I mean, we use them if we have dead stock or something.
We pay so much a year for them to pick up, to take it up to the year, you know.
But then you would follow them in your car, would you?
Yeah, yeah.
And who would you do that with?
And I sang Top of Pen-a-Lan. I don't know, Top of Pen-a-Lan.
Yeah.
Up there, we'd be up there.
That's like an orchard there.
Yes, yeah, we used to have trees.
So did you get apples off those as well?
Yes, apples and pears.
Did you ever make cider from them?
No, no, but we used to can them.
Can them?
Mm-hmm.
Gosh, that's lovely. So where is the orchard then?
This was my...
So where was the orchard here?
There.
Oh, gosh.
Yes.
Okay.
And this was my garden over here.
Did you ever have horses on your farm?
No.
No?
Not just the two donkeys.
Oh, we did...
Oh, gosh, that's me when I was...
Oh, I shouldn't be showing you this.
This is 1951.
Oh, please do.
I represented Miss Langorse in Breconshire.
Really?
So when it was haymaking...
Would you have had to make all the lunches for everyone coming in?
Who was helping with the haymaking?
Yeah, usually in the evening I'd cook ham, potatoes and stuff like that.
Yeah.
They'd come in at supper time.
Not so much in the daytime.
I mean, they'd have something to eat, sandwiches or something.
But I used to cook them in the evening, you know, for them to come in.
Yeah, and they'd come back.
Oh.
Yeah, we had a lovely life, really.
And that was me.
So did you ever...
You were probably then too young to have ever thatched hay ricks then and stuff.
Well, yeah, I've seen them done.
Have you?
Yes.
When I was at my grandparents', they used to do it there.
But of course, we've always had the bands and of course the bales now, but we used to do small bales.
Yeah.
I think there's a certain amount of small bales now, if I remember rightly.
Because it's the round ones now, isn't it?
Yes, of course.
You know, the big round ones.
Yeah, so times have altered.
So was there any...
There's something I've been meaning to ask and I've forgotten to ask.
I'll ask everybody else.
But was there, excuse me, any food or meals?
So, for example, my parents are Irish and a traditional meal we would have would be boiled ham, Parsi sauce and something called chump, which was potatoes and onions and cabbage.
Yes, yeah.
Is there anything on the moors that was traditional like that?
Any particular dishes or...
I used to always boil ham.
Yeah.
You know, I like boiled ham.
It's nice and potatoes and stuff like that.
No, I suppose...
I think it's a thing that's a farmhouse meal, isn't it?
Yeah.
Boiled ham, potatoes, peas, Parsi sauce.
You know, that type of thing, isn't it?
So you would always be in the kitchen providing food for people working on the farm?
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Oh, yes, yes.
Yes, yes.
And...
Yeah.
Yes, I used to go out and feed the chicken in there.
I used to feed the poultry, you know, feed the poultry and all that.
But, yes, and they'd come in then about two, I was 10, 11 o'clock and then they'd sit down
and have supper and then they'd go about 12 o'clock, 1 o'clock.
Wow.
Yes, yeah.
I always enjoyed the hay making.
You know, the harvest time used to be lovely.
Great.
Well, why was...
What was it...
Why did you like it?
Because it was just a...
Well, I think...
Well, meeting...
They used to come in and I was in...
And then, you know, we'd go hauling the bales and all this business, you know, the loose
hay years ago.
Yeah.
I thought I had a photograph here of...
I haven't got one.
I thought I had a photograph here of the...
Oh, what was it?
So, do you remember any of the people who used to work for the drainage board that used
to come round and clear the reams and stuff?
Oh, dear, what was his name?
I can see him now.
Oh, really?
Oh.
Oh, they look into me in a moment.
Yes, he was just slashed, you know, with a long-handled hook.
Oh, do you remember that?
Down the broadway.
Yeah.
Down the broadway, particularly.
Mm.
Um...
Oh.
Well, the one that's died now back a couple of months ago...
Mm.
Um...
Oh.
Hmm.
I can't think of the name.
I can't think of the other gentleman.
I can see him now doing this, you know.
Well, he's silly, isn't he?
He'll come to you.
He'll come.
And so, Dilwyn was on the drainage board.
Yeah, Dilwyn was on the drainage board, and his father was before him.
Yeah.
So, what did that mean?
Does it mean just, you know, was it an important role?
Well, I suppose it controlled the reams and everything, really, wasn't it?
The drainage board, more or less.
You know, it was to see that they were cut in the reed.
The reeds were cut and everything from off the sides.
Yeah.
And I suppose controlled the gates.
Yes.
It opened out opposite the bottom of the broadway.
Yeah.
The gates are automatic.
It's all automatic now, you see.
Yeah, it's all changed.
Years ago, it used to have to be done more or less by hand.
Yeah.
You know.
So, it's...
The Moors are very interested, really.
Mm.
Very interesting, aren't they, in different things?
I think so.
Yes.
I think it's fascinating, actually.
It's so different.
What about fish?
Did you ever get eels in the reed, or...?
Oh, yes.
Yes, down the bottom of the sluice, you know.
Yeah.
You used to have eels out of there.
Did you?
Yes, yes.
Mm.
What, you used to cut them?
Oh, yes.
I used to love to eat them.
Really?
So, how did you catch them and cut them?
Oh, you'd catch them with a rod.
Yeah.
And put something on the end of it, you know, and catch them like that.
And you'd put them in the bucket then.
Yeah.
So, as, you know, they'd have fresh water, and then you'd kill them and eat them.
How long would you keep...?
I wouldn't.
He wouldn't.
Oh, no.
But you would keep them in the fresh bucket for a few days, fresh of water?
Oh, yes.
Change the water for a day or two, so as they get the, well...
The earthy stuff?
Yes, the earthy stuff.
Yeah.
Otherwise, you'd be eating earth.
So, you would do that?
Yeah.
Really?
And then you would skin it?
Skin it, and then cook it.
Yeah.
Fry it in the frying pan, chop it up in bits.
Really?
Really.
But they were very keen.
I mean, I enjoy anything.
Yeah.
Or everything, put it that way.
I'm not fussy with my food.
I enjoy a lot.
That's a good free source of food, though.
Yeah, it is, yes.
What about elvers?
Was that something anyone ever had down there?
No.
I don't think so.
No, no.
Down the bottom end of the drive, of course, and they'd have them down there.
I need to get them up through the, you know, up the field.
I don't know if you've got them under the rostrums.
Did you?
Mm.
Really?
Yes, yeah, yeah.
Crikey.
Oh, yes.
It's, um, it's fascinating, really, isn't it, when you think back what you've seen and done.
What about church?
Did your family ever go to church, you know, when you were down living on?
Yes, I used to go to St Peter's Church, which is the big church in the village.
Yeah.
But, of course, that closed.
Mm.
And, um, it's a house now, prison.
Is that something the whole family would go to?
Uh, yes.
Sunday morning.
I used to try and go to church all of Sunday evening.
Mm.
I mean, Father Prosser was a church warden there.
Was he?
During his father.
Yeah.
Oh, yes, he was a big churchman.
Was he?
Yes, yes.
And Mother used to go.
Mother Prosser used to go.
Yeah.
And they were on occasionally, and, um, they were married in Peterstone Church.
But, of course, it closed then, a little while after.
And, um, it's a house now.
People's got it as a house.
Yeah, yeah.
They were living in there.
I don't know.
Unfortunately, the gentleman.
They're dying now.
Only last year, um, his wife and the child are still there.
But, um, apparently they were.
I've never been in there since, naturally.
But they were living in pods.
Were they?
It's a big church, man.
It's huge.
High.
Crikey.
Tremendous.
Oh, yeah.
Tremendous height.
Yeah.
Been up the top of the tower.
Lovely view from there.
Really?
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Would the congregation have been very big?
Um, well, yes.
It varied then.
You know, it's like Marshfield is a bigger church.
Yeah.
Or they do get more congregation there.
Because I suppose it's in a bigger village, isn't it?
Mm-hmm.
And that's a nice church, too.
It's a Mary's church.
I've got, um, doings.
I've got a rose tree down there for doing.
But I've also got a casket up in the field up here.
Have you?
Of his ashes, yes.
Oh.
And, um.
Do you remember any characters that stand out for you or that you remember?
Well, um.
Before the buildings that are over the other side of the road now, there were buildings,
but not like they are now.
And there used to be an old fellow living in there.
Yeah.
And, um, Dennis, his name was.
And, uh, he used to wear a long, long coat.
Uh, he lived in there.
And there was a grate in the corner where you'd have a bit of a fireplace if you wanted it.
And Dennis, and he'd walk from there then into town, or Rumney.
Yeah.
And walk back.
I can see him now.
It was in the stages ago.
Yeah.
He was in a long, long black coat.
And then there was another one down at, um, uh, the farm down at, um, St. Bride's.
And his name was, um, he was another character.
They, um, oh, I can't, I can't think of his name.
He lived in a, in a barn.
Well, they kind of like, I don't like to use the word tramp, but kind of like a, just somebody
who used to.
Well, they were, yes, they were kind of a tramp.
Yeah.
You know.
And Billy Mitch, that was down there.
That's right.
And Dennis used to be in this one that, um, in our, in our barn over there.
They were no trouble.
I mean, you know, they, um, actually, I think Father Prosser, uh, went over there one day
and, and he, he died in the, lost him, so.
Really?
Had to get the police and all that.
It was a bit of a.
Yeah.
Lost him, you know.
But, um, no, there were characters about then, weren't there?
Yeah.
Years ago like that.
They'd, um.
Um, uh, well, I can, I can see them.
I can place them now.
And it's going back a little while.
Yes, Dennis and, uh, Billy Mitch used to call him.
And he'd always, um, and if the, they'd reckon as if the airplanes were coming over during
the war, because that was when he was there down the wall.
Um, he turned his pipe upside down in case he's.
Oh.
No, that.
Oh, isn't that lovely?
Yeah.
Isn't that lovely?
It's a comic moment, isn't it?
Isn't it a thing?
Because they might see his pipe.
Oh, right.
And he uses it.
Oh, it is really funny.
Yeah.
Funny.
Someone was telling me now, where was it now?
I can't remember.
Oh, something about that.
Was it St. Bride's or was it somewhere else there?
I might be wrong.
That on the Sunday the pubs used to be closed in Wales.
This is when the border was different.
So people used to flood over to here to use the pubs on the Sunday.
Is that right?
Yeah.
Maybe I've got that wrong.
Um, no, they used to.
There was a law, wasn't there, where the pubs used to close on the Sunday in a lot of places.
Um.
But I can't, I can't remember where that, um, you know, it was, um, wasn't with ours.
I might have got that wrong, actually.
I mean, it's, I feel very sad really.
The Six Bells is closed.
Yeah.
You know.
I mean, and that's, that was, there was two cottages at the site of that.
Yeah.
And, um, I don't know.
It's, it's a, it was a, um, was it a popular pub?
Oh, yes.
Oh, we've got a lot of lovely times down there.
Have you?
Especially Christmas time.
Yeah.
You know, we'd go down there and then somebody would be playing the organ.
I mean, have a good old sing-song and that, you know.
Yeah.
And, um, oh, I think I got a photograph.
I'm, I'm boring you with these photographs.
You are not.
I love photographs, Margaret.
I really do love photographs.
Mm-hmm .
This is the Six Bells.
Oh.
With all the horses.
No, that's interesting.
I think I might have seen that photograph before.
Have you? Maybe.
No, I think...
He was the master.
So which pack is this?
This would be the...
What's it?
Tredegar.
Tredegar hunt, yes.
And this is the one you used to follow in your sports car?
Yeah.
Yes, that's right, yes.
Oh, and who's this?
Do you know where this is taken?
No, I'm not certain of that.
And see, there was two cottages at the side of the six barrels.
Oh, yes, yes.
And then this is...
What was this, Ken Philp?
Only now, last year.
Because it looks like it's been closed for years, doesn't it?
Yes, it does, yes.
It looks a bit of a mess, doesn't it?
Yeah, yeah.
Yes, it's a shame because we had a lot of fun down there.
Yeah.
Yes.
I just met, thinking about the St. Melon's show.
I mean...
That's folded now.
That's folded.
But I understand that was a huge event in its time.
Yes, yes, it was very good.
We had tremendous times with the show.
We used to be on the...
First of all, the St. Melon's show used to be at Rimley,
on the top of Rimley Hill.
And then it came then to...
Oh, what's there now?
Oh.
The only one...
Good.
You know.
Bakers used to have the farm.
Oh.
Well, all these...
Oh, dear.
I can't think of the name.
Oh, that's silly, isn't it?
You know, when you go down now towards Newport.
Yes.
All these buildings on the right-hand side
and this left-hand side.
Like a radiator plant and...
That's right.
That's right, yes.
Suffering.
We used to have the show there.
Did you?
And then we came then to Kevin Mabley here
down the bottom of this lane.
Yeah.
Where you came over the bridge.
Farm Park.
Yeah.
We used to have it there.
Oh, really?
Yes, in the big field there.
Yeah.
And, oh, yes.
And then we went then to Jadica House.
Yeah.
But it was never the same.
Not really.
You know, we used to get...
I don't know why it was
because it was a nice site.
But we didn't get the agricultural side of things.
Yeah.
It changed.
It changed altogether.
Yeah.
So where it was used to be by Koikernu...
Yes.
What was it...
So where that area is now,
it's completely developed.
It's developed, isn't it?
Oh, yes.
Yeah.
Was it just farmland then?
It was farmland.
Yes.
It's hard to imagine.
It is.
It is, isn't it?
So before the motorway and everything,
it was...
Yes.
Well, of course,
they were talking about putting another road up
onto the motorway.
Yeah.
I don't know where that's going to happen.
I don't know.
But it was just farmland?
Yes.
Because you still live there.
And it was where all the local farmers
would go along there,
would they,
to present,
show their livestock?
Yes.
It was a proper agriculture show.
Oh, yes, it was.
Definitely.
Everything was there.
Yeah.
Yes.
And the local show now is Mackenshow.
OK.
And that's...
I was on the first Saturday of July.
Yeah.
And that's a nice little show.
And that's as big as what St. Melon's was,
you know.
But, oh, yes.
Oh, yes, we've had a lot of fun at the shows.
Yeah.
Lovely.
But there are things altered,
aren't there,
over the years?
Yeah, they do.
You know.
I was just going to ask you about the Lighthouse pub.
Is that something that...
Locals would have ever used.
Was it something people from out of town would use?
Have you been down to the Lighthouse pub?
Oh, it's very pleasant.
And a lot of people used to walk on the bank,
you know, across the bank.
Really?
Mm.
What, would people walk along from Cardiff along here?
Yes.
Well, yeah, sort of from Remedy, perhaps, you know,
walk and then see them go back and that, you know.
Oh.
Yes, yeah.
Oh, it's very pleasant.
And there is a nice day.
Yeah, it is.
It's nice.
You know, it's...
You go up and you can see
both sides.
Yeah.
I'm sure he was telling me that
that people used to
stay in almost like a chalet,
a seat shack
in...
on the...
by the sea wall.
Is that right?
At St. Bride's.
At St. Bride's?
Yes.
Or was it...
They've got caravans there now.
I don't think he meant the caravan,
that people would rent out...
would come out for the weekend and...
Maybe he did mean the caravan, actually.
I didn't think he did mean that.
Yeah.
Maybe I got that wrong.
He said people would come out for the day
on their bikes and...
Oh, a lot of people used to go
to St. Bride's.
Really?
Yes, yes.
Yeah.
Mm.
Yes.
And of course they'd have these little
tent things, wouldn't they?
Oh, really?
Yes, yes.
You see those down there.
What?
Like people would camp?
Yes, yes.
They'd sleep in there and then...
Really?
Mm.
But what...
Along by the wall?
Or...?
Um, not so much the wall,
but before they put the caravan sites,
because they're a fair bit of caravan sites,
I did St. Bride's apparently.
Yeah.
Which I haven't been there for years.
Excuse me.
And, um, they used to have these little tent things,
you know, you see it on the television, don't you?
Really?
Yes.
Mm.
Oh, I didn't know that.
Yes, it's...
Yes, times have changed, haven't they?
Yeah, they have.
They have.
I said, it's one thing I have to ask you about,
because I was asking about it,
because part of what I'm doing is, um,
maybe talking to people who live along the moors,
but, um, that includes people,
people from the Gypsy community.
Mm-hmm.
Um, do you remember any Gypsies coming through and...?
Well, when we had ground in, um,
we rented ground on the corner down in St. Bride's,
in, um, um...
Uh...
Well, where the Gypsy caravan is,
that site is now.
Yeah.
Uh, there used to be the old...
She was an old Gypsy in the proper old...
Uh...
Rangtongue.
Yeah.
And they were there for years on the corner,
and they were out of our field,
and we used to have to just pass them, you know,
to go into the field.
Yeah.
And they'd give no trouble at all.
But these are not Gypsies, are they?
Mm.
Not being unkind, they're travellers.
No, I know.
Yeah.
You know?
And, I mean, I mean, they got horses tethered,
and, uh, well, a friend of mine,
she saw this little tiny pony one day,
and she thought the pull...
I don't know, any tweets.
She came home and took some hay down to give it on the road.
Oh.
You know?
It's sad.
No, these are travellers more, I think.
You know, it's...
They're not the proper Gypsy.
Mm.
I don't think.
There we are.
That's life, I suppose, isn't it?
It is, I suppose.
And there's so many of them now, isn't there?
So, do you know, you go towards Cardiff and Rumley,
from where I live now.
Yes.
I mean, again, when you first arrived,
was that just agricultural land?
Oh, yes, all just fields.
Mm.
It's hard for me to imagine.
Yes, yes, mm.
Yes, and, of course, there's the, um,
uh, KLG.
Yeah.
Which is a bit firm opposite, isn't it?
Uh, do motor things.
But, uh, oh, yes, it was all...
It's most unfortunate.
I mean, there's a little house there as you go down
towards, um, the caravan site.
On the right-hand side, um, he was the coalman,
Mr Sadler.
And I look at it now and I think to myself,
oh, if he came back and saw us...
Right.
Yeah, he'd be very, very upset about it, you know?
Yeah.
He was the coalman?
Yes.
So he delivered coal?
He delivered coal, yes.
He had the bags of coal.
Mm.
Yes.
Mr Sadler.
I, his son is still alive.
Uh, he lives in Brumney.
Oh.
I've seen him for some time, actually.
But as the house was, it was immaculate, you know?
But as it is now, the slates are gone and...
Oh, it's, it's a mess.
Oh.
He'd break his heart.
Do you remember a nurse...
I thought it was Nurse Cox.
She was the midwife.
Oh, yes, yes.
Yes.
Now, um...
She lived on the top of Pen-a-Land, didn't she?
That's right.
Well, there were two cottages there.
And I'm very friendly with, um, uh, Betty Stephens, her name is now.
She was Betty Bridge.
Uh, lived in there, one of those, and her brother.
And, um, uh, those...
What, of course, are they gone?
What's that?
Yes, Nurse Cox.
And there was another nurse who lived up there, too.
Because Nurse Cox moved down to Castleton.
Yes.
On the left-hand side, as you go down off the main road.
Hmm.
Oh, yes.
She used to go round delivering the babies and all.
Yeah.
Did she deliver Andrew and your daughter?
No, I went into Glossop.
Oh, did you?
Yes, yes.
I went into Glossop, Tansley.
Yeah.
I just stayed in with both of them, actually.
But, um, yes.
Oh, you're bringing back memories for me, as well.
Oh.
Well, I, I, uh, met her...
Well, I suppose we got hedgerows here.
When I was down there, there was the Reans.
Ah.
You know.
Yeah.
Um, but, um...
Not really, I suppose.
No.
No, the grass is the same.
It's green.
Yeah.
And you drove, drove a tractor from early on?
Oh, yes.
Yes.
I drove, I drove, when we moved from Langorse down to Berryhill, um, on a Ferguson, Ferguson
25, excuse me, um, I did three journeys from Langorse down to Berryhill.
It took me four and a half hours.
Really?
With the trailer behind, with implements and stuff.
Brought them down to Berryhill Farm.
And, um, and then when I was going back, do you know the way, do you know, um, Pontypool
area much?
You know, I...
I've been to Pontyboil recently.
Pontyboil?
Yeah.
All right, yeah.
Well, when you go, um, it wasn't the new road then, because I wouldn't have been able to
go on the new road anyway.
Yeah.
No, you wouldn't be able to go on the motorway, uh, you know, with a tractor.
It wasn't the same then.
Um, and, uh, I used to go down past the Holston Jockey on the bottom, and I used to go down
the hill and knock it out of gear.
Yeah.
And I'd go down that hill like the crappers.
And I often think, well, what if something came across the road?
I wouldn't have a chance.
Oh, my goodness.
You do things when you're young, don't you?
Yeah.
Yeah, I did three journeys, that.
I brought the plough up, and I brought a big trailer up with implements on.
And, uh, yes, it took me four and a half hours to come down.
And were you the only child?
Yes.
Ah.
I haven't even got a cousin.
Really?
No.
But my, my two aunts didn't marry.
My one aunt did marry.
We didn't have no family.
And then my, my, um, uncle, he married.
He didn't marry.